[GEOS-10012] Support inclusion vendor options to disable Style elements when rendering legends (#4950)
geoserver/geoserver: doc/en/user/source/styling/sld/extensions/rendering-selection.rst

.. _rendering_selection:

Rendering Selection
====================

GeoServer provides two ``VendorOptions`` to define whether a particular element ``Rule``, ``FeatureTypeStyle`` or ``Symbolizer`` should be applied to a ``getLegendGraphic`` output or to a ``getMap`` output.
The two options are named ``renderingMap`` and ``renderingLegend`` and can take a value of ``true`` or ``false`` eg.:

> * - <VendorOption name="renderingMap">false</VendorOption>

Reviewer: To be updated based on the geotools PR changes.

Author: fixed

.. _rendering_selection:

Rendering Selection
====================

> GeoServer provides a ``VendorOptions`` to define whether a particular element ``Rule``, ``FeatureTypeStyle`` or ``Symbolizer`` should be applied to a ``getLegendGraphic`` output or to a ``getMap`` output.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
GeoServer provides a ``VendorOptions`` to define whether a particular element ``Rule``, ``FeatureTypeStyle`` or ``Symbolizer`` should be applied to a ``getLegendGraphic`` output or to a ``getMap`` output.
This allows the generate legends from the SLD that can better looking and more expressive, without the underlying complexity of the actual rendered style. Other systems have a dedicated language to build legends instead. The advantage of using the same language is that dynamic behaviors, like rule removal based on the area being rendered, can be easily retained.
```

Author: fixed

> The option is named ``inclusion`` and can take the following values: ``normal`` if no selection will apply, ``mapOnly`` if the SLD element should be used only during maps rendering and ``legendOnly`` if the element will be applied only when rendering legends eg.:

Reviewer: The definition of what values do was specified twice.

```suggestion
The vendor option is named ``inclusion``, e.g.:
```

Author: fixed

* - <VendorOption name="inclusion">legendOnly</VendorOption>

* - <VendorOption name="inclusion">mapOnly</VendorOption>

> If the value is set to ``legendOnly`` the element will be skipped when applying the style to the data to render map.
> If the value is set to ``mapOnly`` the element will be skipped when applying the style to the data to render legend.
> If the value is set to ``normal`` will have the same effect then omitting the VendorOption: the SLD element will be used for both map and legend.

Reviewer: Looks like a great use case for a bullet list.

```suggestion
Valid values are:
-  ``legendOnly`` the element will be skipped when applying the style to the data to render map.
- ``mapOnly`` the element will be skipped when applying the style to the data to render legend.
- ``normal`` will have the same effect then omitting the VendorOption: the SLD element will be used for both map and legend (same effect as not specifying the vendor option).
```

Author: fixed
